[Music]
would you ever walk into work with black
teeth or how about rocking a miniature
portrait of your eye around your neck on
the first date believe it or not these
are just some of the bizarre things
people used to consider fashionable back
in the day and you thought Crocs were as
bad as it gets just wait until you see
some of these heinous creations 9
Krakow's well it looks like hilariously
exaggerated Peter Pan shoes were
actually a major fashion statement worn
by wealthier aristocrat men in Poland
England and various parts of Europe
known as Krakow shoes they first
appeared on the scene during the Middle
Ages in the 12th century but they really
became popular during the 15th century
and while men in particular really loved
rocking these bad boys wealthier women
sported them as well from time to time
these shoes were also referred to as
pole Eames meaning shoes in the Polish
fashion and yes that hard to miss pointy
tip is what made them a hit when it came
to these pointy little shoes size
definitely mattered basically the longer
the tip the higher the wearer's social
class was if even if I was rich I'd have
to pass on this one
8i portrait jewelry they say that the
eyes are the windows to the soul
but what does it mean if you wear them
all over your body
back in the Georgian era during the 18th
and 19th centuries
little miniature eyes were worn as
jewelry the trend started with the
Prince of Wales at the time who would
later become King George the fourth he
was known to have many love affairs and
when he fell in love with one woman he
sent her a tiny portrait of his I along
with a marriage proposal in an attempt
to woo her Oh creepy much well she must
have been into it because she sent him a
portrait of her own eyes too
I started a fashion trend known as
lovers eyes which became popular in
America Western Europe and Russia these
eyepieces were pretty small and were
often worn on trinkets attached to rings
pendants and brooches they were kind of
scandalous since only the person wearing
it would know whose eyes they were it
was also considered quite romantic to
wear such jewelry I still say it's
creepy but that's just me seven powdered
wigs toward the end of the 17th and into
the 18th century it seems like everyone
in Europe was wearing wigs what's up
with that anyway
well these crazy large wigs became
wildly popular among the people in
France after king louis xiv started
sporting the look around town while it's
likely he used wigs to cover up his
balding head this elaborate fashion
statement was also a way to show off his
immense nobility and since these wigs
were often powdered with more pleasant
sense like lavender and orange they were
also great at masking body odor I mean
who wouldn't want to cover their
baldness and Bo while looking as cool as
a king during this period of time many
wealthy men and women loved to express
themselves with flamboyant over-the-top
looks while men generally died either
brown or white wigs some women would
even choose colored wigs like light pink
or blue well into the 18th century the
fellas started dialing down the dramatic
wigs to smaller powdered white ones with
a little low ponytail tied with a bow
you've probably seen a lot of America's
Founding Fathers wearing these and
paintings hey it's not the worst fashion
trend we've ever seen 6 super long
fingernails today many people love
sporting long creatively decorated nails
but they're nothing like Chinese high
society is to tote around this tradition
of long long nails goes back to ancient
times and they were even sported by both
wealthier men and women as a way to show
they never have to use their hands to do
labor sometimes they'd even wear nail
protectors so that their precious cargo
wouldn't get damaged some would grow
their nails up to six inches long and
dye them different colors five hoop
skirts there was a lot of questionable
fashion choices being made during the
Victorian era in Europe like corsets
worn so tight that women would literally
faint it was also the time that hoop
skirts became incredibly popular among
the ladies in the 1850s and 60s these
larger-than-life hoop skirts would have
a crazy wide circumference they were
actually so big that they could even
save some women from drowning at the
time this fashion trend was referred to
as crinoline mania as the skirts were in
fact made of crinoline while hoop skirts
were a sign of high fashion they were
also really dangerous since the material
was super flammable and would catch fire
easily talk about hot could sure for
Show pings ever wonder what inspired the
Spice Girls to rock those platform shoes
back in the 90s well maybe it was these
things while different parts of the
world have been known to wear platform
shoes in past centuries the people of
Venice took this trend to a whole new
level
they'd wear sho pins which were
typically made of wood and could be as
tall as 20 inches in some cases these
platform shoes got so tall that Venetian
law attempted to regulate their height
but both men and women just ignored it
as you do when the authorities try to
tell you how to dress and like those
pointy shoes I mentioned earlier the
higher the platform the higher the
social status although these shoes were
extremely popular in Italy in the 15th
16th and 17th centuries people in Spain
Turkey China and Greece were also known
to rock these crazy platforms they
however all had their own unique twist
on the shoe Spain's version for example
was a bit simpler and more symmetric but
during the 17th century heeled shoes
started to gain popularity and shoppings
took a backseat for good
three arsenic dresses would you risk
your life for fashion a lot of women in
the 19th century did during the
Victorian era clothing manufacturers
mainly in the UK France and North
America would use toxic dyes to create
gorgeous colors for their garments for
example arsenic was used to create a
beautiful emerald green color arsenic as
you may or may not know is an incredibly
dangerous poison when it came into
contact with the skin it caused a lot of
people to develop sores and scabs not to
mention a fact that exposure to it could
cause nausea vomiting an even impaired
vision there was one case of a 19 year
old woman who suffered a tragic death
after working with the arsenic riddled
dye at her job over a period of time and
that was just one of the many fatal
instances of that time hold on now
don't go out and toss all your green
shirts and dresses green dye is no
longer filled with arsenic so you have
nothing to worry about but because of
its morbid past those who work with
fabrics often consider green dye to be
bad luck to wax cones are these ancient
Egyptians celebrating someone's birthday
because those cones on their heads look
awfully familiar
all right this fashion statement had
nothing to do with birthdays based on
archaeological findings these odd head
pieces were likely made of wax or fat
and were mainly worn by women however
men have also been seen wearing them in
some paintings these cones weren't just
for decoration though you see they melt
on people's heads over the course of the
day and give their hair or legs some
moisture today I think hair conditioner
will do just fine
one black teeth imagine you're meeting
someone at a party for the first time
and when they smile at you all you see
is a set of black teeth hey to each his
own
but that'd still be pretty jarring but
in places like Japan and England
sporting charcoal black teeth was once a
big
fashion statement in England this trend
started during Elizabeth the first rain
a period that's known as early Tudor
England you see the Queen had an aching
sweet tooth she couldn't help but
indulge in all kinds of sugary delights
but that backfired and her bad little
habit ended up rotting her teeth but
since so many people looked up to the
dear Queen at the time they took her
look quite seriously and started to
blacken their own teeth so that they
look like her Majesties this was also a
way for them to prove that they could
afford to indulge in sugary treats or at
least fake it as for Japan up until the
end of the 19th century women there were
blackening their teeth by ingesting dye
in a practice called ohaooh rule they
would drink this dye which was often
mixed with cinnamon and cloves for taste
once a day every few days this practice
was at the peak of its popularity during
the Heian period from the 8th to 12th
century in japan female aristocrats
would sport this dark smile and it was
considered a major Beauty symbol and
here I was spending tons of money on
teeth whitening services all these years
which fashion trends are you glad stayed
in the past share your thoughts down in
the comments please don't forget to give
this video a big thumbs up share it with
your friends and click Subscribe to
always stay on the bright side of life
[Music]